README.md, before:

# Tapster
Cache adapter module for NodeJs. WIP 🚧 🚧

## Installation:
```
npm install @extensionengine/tapster
```

## Store providers
- `memory` (uses [LRU](https://github.com/isaacs/node-lru-cache))
- `redis` (uses [ioredis](https://github.com/luin/ioredis))
- custom - use any store you want, as long as it has the same API

## Usage
See examples below and in the examples directory.

### Memory store
```js
const client = new CacheManager({ store: 'memory', ttl: 10 /* seconds */ });

// If the set method is called without ttl, the default ttl will be used
await client.set('foo', 'bar');
await client.get('foo'); // bar
await client.has('foo') // true
await client.has('baz'); // false

await sleep('10s');
await client.get('foo'); // undefined
await client.has('foo') // false

// When ttl is defined, it will overwrite the default one
await client.set('foo', 'bar', 5);
await client.has('foo') // true

await sleep('5s');
await client.has('foo') // false

// ttl = 0 means no expiration time
await client.set('foo', 'bar', 0);
```

### Redis store
```js
const client = new CacheManager({
  store: 'redis',
  host: 'localhost',
  port: 6379,
  ttl: 10 /* seconds */
});

// ...
  await client.set('foo', 'bar');
  await client.get('foo'); // bar
// ...  
```

### Custom store
You can use your own custom store by creating one with the same API as the built-in memory stores (such as a memory or redis). See `examples/custom-store.js`.
```js
class CustomStore { /* ... */ }
const client = new CacheManager({ store: CustomStore });

// ...
  await client.set('foo', 'bar');
  await client.get('foo'); // bar
// ...  
```

### Namespaces
You can namespace your cache instance to avoid key collisions and allow you to clear only a certain namespace while using the same database.
```js
const users = new CacheManager({ namespace: 'users' });
const cars = new CacheManager({ namespace: 'cars' });

await users.set('record-1', 'John');
await cars.set('record-1', 'Honda');

console.log('User keys: ', await users.getKeys()); // ['record-1'];
console.log(await users.get('record-1')); // John
console.log('Car keys: ', await cars.getKeys()); // ['record-1']
console.log(await cars.get('record-1')); // Honda

await users.clear();

console.log('User keys: ', await users.getKeys()); // []
console.log(await users.get('record-1')); // undefined
console.log('Car keys: ', await cars.getKeys()); // ['record-1']
console.log(await cars.get('record-1')); // Honda
```

## Options
### Common
- `store` (optional) - built-in store (`memory`, `redis`) or custom store. Default is `memory`.
- `ttl` (optional) - time to live in seconds. Default is `0`.
- `namespace` (optional) - namespace cache instance to avoid key collisions. Default is `default`.
### Redis store
- `host` (required) - redis host.
- `port` (required) - redis port.
- `password` (optional) - redis password.

## API
- `set(key, value, ttl)` - TTL is optional. The global ttl will be used if the set method is called without a ttl parameter.
- `get(key) => value`
- `delete(key)`
- `has(key)`
- `clear` - Clear all records under the certain namespace
- `getKeys(pattern) => keys`

Supported glob-style patterns:
- h?llo matches hello, hallo and hxllo
- h*llo matches hllo and heeeello
- h[ae]llo matches hello and hallo, but not hillo
- h[^e]llo matches hallo, hbllo, ... but not hello
- h[a-b]llo matches hallo and hbllo

## Tests
To run tests run: 
```
npm t
```

## License
Tapster is licensed under the MIT license.

Commit message:

Add serialization to the readme 📝

README.md, after:

# Tapster
Cache adapter module for NodeJs. WIP 🚧 🚧

## Installation:
```
npm install @extensionengine/tapster
```
```js
const CacheManager = require('@extensionengine/tapster');
const cache = new CacheManager({ /* ... */ });
```

## Store providers
- `memory` (uses [LRU](https://github.com/isaacs/node-lru-cache))
- `redis` (uses [ioredis](https://github.com/luin/ioredis))
- custom - use any store you want, as long as it has the same API

## Usage
See examples below and in the examples directory.

### Memory store
```js
const client = new CacheManager({ store: 'memory', ttl: 10 /* seconds */ });

// If the set method is called without ttl, the default ttl will be used
await client.set('foo', 'bar');
await client.get('foo'); // bar
await client.has('foo') // true
await client.has('baz'); // false

await sleep('10s');
await client.get('foo'); // undefined
await client.has('foo') // false

// When ttl is defined, it will overwrite the default one
await client.set('foo', 'bar', 5);
await client.has('foo') // true

await sleep('5s');
await client.has('foo') // false

// ttl = 0 means no expiration time
await client.set('foo', 'bar', 0);
```

### Redis store
```js
const client = new CacheManager({
  store: 'redis',
  host: 'localhost',
  port: 6379,
  ttl: 10 /* seconds */
});

// ...
  await client.set('foo', 'bar');
  await client.get('foo'); // bar
// ...  
```

### Custom store
You can use your own custom store by creating one with the same API as the built-in memory stores (such as a memory or redis). See `examples/custom-store.js`.
```js
class CustomStore { /* ... */ }
const client = new CacheManager({ store: CustomStore });

// ...
  await client.set('foo', 'bar');
  await client.get('foo'); // bar
// ...  
```

### Serialization
Tapster uses `JSON.stringify` and `JSON.parse` for data serialization.
You can optionally provide your own serialization functions to support extra data types or to serialize to something other than JSON.
```js
const cache = new CacheManager({ serialize: JSON.stringify, deserialize: JSON.parse });
```

### Namespaces
You can namespace your cache instance to avoid key collisions and allow you to clear only a certain namespace while using the same database.
```js
const users = new CacheManager({ namespace: 'users' });
const cars = new CacheManager({ namespace: 'cars' });

await users.set('record-1', 'John');
await cars.set('record-1', 'Honda');

console.log('User keys: ', await users.getKeys()); // ['record-1'];
console.log(await users.get('record-1')); // John
console.log('Car keys: ', await cars.getKeys()); // ['record-1']
console.log(await cars.get('record-1')); // Honda

await users.clear();

console.log('User keys: ', await users.getKeys()); // []
console.log(await users.get('record-1')); // undefined
console.log('Car keys: ', await cars.getKeys()); // ['record-1']
console.log(await cars.get('record-1')); // Honda
```

## Options
### Common
- `store` (optional) - built-in store (`memory`, `redis`) or custom store. Default is `memory`.
- `ttl` (optional) - time to live in seconds. Default is `0`.
- `namespace` (optional) - namespace cache instance to avoid key collisions. Default is `default`.
### Redis store
- `host` (required) - redis host.
- `port` (required) - redis port.
- `password` (optional) - redis password.

## API
- `set(key, value, ttl)` - TTL is optional. The global ttl will be used if the set method is called without a ttl parameter.
- `get(key) => value`
- `delete(key)`
- `has(key)`
- `clear` - Clear all records under the certain namespace
- `getKeys(pattern) => keys`

Supported glob-style patterns:
- h?llo matches hello, hallo and hxllo
- h*llo matches hllo and heeeello
- h[ae]llo matches hello and hallo, but not hillo
- h[^e]llo matches hallo, hbllo, ... but not hello
- h[a-b]llo matches hallo and hbllo

## Tests
To run tests run: 
```
npm t
```

## License
Tapster is licensed under the MIT license.
